Add bare metal information to troubleshooting docs (#2586)
aws/eks-anywhere: docs/content/en/docs/tasks/troubleshoot/troubleshooting.md

Analysis output generated {"path": "CLUSTER_NAME/generated/bootstrap-cluster-2022-06-28T00:43:40Z-analysis.yaml"}
collecting workload cluster diagnostics
Error: waiting for workload cluster control plane to be ready: executing wait: error: timed out waiting for the condition on clusters/CLUSTER_NAME
```
In either of those cases, the following steps can help you determine the problem:

1. Export the kind cluster’s kubeconfig file:

    ```bash
    export KUBECONFIG=${PWD}/${CLUSTER_NAME}/generated/${CLUSTER_NAME}.kind.kubeconfig
    ```
1. If you have provided BMC information:

    * Check all of the machines that the EKS Anywhere CLI has picked up from the pool of hardware in the CSV file:

        ```bash
        kubectl get machines -A
        ```
    * Check if those nodes are powered on. If any of those nodes are not powered on after a while then it could be possible that BMC credentials are invalid. You can verify it by checking the logs:

        ```bash
        kubectl get bmt -n eksa-system
        kubectl get bmt <bmt-name> -n eksa-system -o yaml
        ```

>     Validate BMC credentials are correct if a connection error is observed on the `bmt` resource. Note that IPMI over LAN is required for the `bmt` resource to communicate with BMC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Validate BMC credentials are correct if a connection error is observed on the `bmt` resource. Note that "IPMI over LAN" must be enabled in the BMC configuration for the `bmt` resource to communicate successfully.
```

Failed to create cluster	{"error": "error waiting for capi-kubeadm-control-plane-controller-manager in namespace capi-kubeadm-control-plane-system: error executing wait: The connection to the server localhost:8080 was refused - did you specify the right host or port?\n"}
```
This is likely a [Memory or disk resource problem]({{< relref "#memory-or-disk-resource-problem" >}}).

### Generic cluster unavailable
Troubleshoot more by inspecting bootstrap cluster or workload cluster (depending on the stage of failure) using kubectl commands. 
```
kubectl get pods -A --kubeconfig=<kubeconfig>
kubectl get nodes -A --kubeconfig=<kubeconfig>
kubectl get logs <podname> -n <namespace> --kubeconfig=<kubeconfig>
....
```
Capv troubleshooting guide: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-vsphere/blob/master/docs/troubleshooting.md#debugging-issues

## Bare Metal troubleshooting

### Bootstrap cluster fails to come up

```
Error: creating bootstrap cluster: executing create cluster: ERROR: failed to create cluster: node(s) already exist for a cluster with the name \"cluster-name\"
, try rerunning with —force-cleanup to force delete previously created bootstrap cluster
```

> The cluster already exists, so you can delete the old one:

Reviewer 2: This is a generic error for all providers. I wouldn't put this under bare metal specifically

Author: Okay. I moved it into the generic section.

```bash

> kind delete cluster --name cluster-name

Reviewer: s this intended to tackle cases where --force-cleanup doesn't work? The error message says use `--force-cleanup` so it seems a little odd we'd tell them to do something else?

Reviewer 3: @chrisdoherty4  Does force-cleanup include killing existing boots?

Reviewer 4: ### 
```
Error: creating bootstrap cluster: executing create cluster: ERROR: failed to create cluster: node(s) already exist for a cluster with the name \"cluster-name\"
, try rerunning with —force-cleanup to force delete previously created bootstrap cluster
```
you can run the create command with --force-cleanup flag:

```bash
eksctl anywhere create cluster -f eksa-mgmt-cluster.yaml -z hardware.csv --force-cleanup
```

or if it fails with below error message

```
Warning: The recommended number of control plane nodes is 3 or 5
Error: error deleting bootstrap cluster: management cluster in bootstrap cluster
```

The cluster already exists, so you can delete the old one:

```bash
kind delete cluster --name cluster-name
```

Reviewer 4: @chrisdoherty4 does the above suggestion look good to you?
@gwesterfieldjr yes, force-cleanup kills the existing boots.

Author: Check out my rewording.

> ```
> Error: creating bootstrap cluster: executing create cluster: ERROR: failed to create cluster: node(s) already exist for a cluster with the name \"cluster-name\"
> , try rerunning with —force-cleanup to force delete previously created bootstrap cluster
> ```
> 
> The cluster already exists, so you can delete the old one:
> 
> ```bash
> kind delete cluster --name cluster-name
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Error: creating bootstrap cluster: executing create cluster: ERROR: failed to create cluster: node(s) already exist for a cluster with the name \"cluster-name\"
, try rerunning with —force-cleanup to force delete previously created bootstrap cluster
```

If you observe the above cluster creation error and have already attempted to create the cluster using the recommended `--force-cleanup` flag, you can manually clean the existing cluster with the following command.

```bash
kind delete cluster --name <cluster-name>
```
```

Analyzing support bundle {"bundle": "CLUSTER_NAME/generated/bootstrap-cluster-2022-06-28T00:41:24Z-bundle.yaml", "archive": "support-bundle-2022-06-28T00_41_24.tar.gz"}
Analysis output generated {"path": "CLUSTER_NAME/generated/bootstrap-cluster-2022-06-28T00:43:40Z-analysis.yaml"}
collecting workload cluster diagnostics
Error: waiting for workload cluster control plane to be ready: executing wait: error: timed out waiting for the condition on clusters/CLUSTER_NAME
```
In either of those cases, the following steps can help you determine the problem:

1. Export the kind cluster’s kubeconfig file:

    ```bash
    export KUBECONFIG=${PWD}/${CLUSTER_NAME}/generated/${CLUSTER_NAME}.kind.kubeconfig
    ```
1. If you have provided BMC information:

    * Check all of the machines that the EKS Anywhere CLI has picked up from the pool of hardware in the CSV file:

        ```bash
        kubectl get machines -A
        ```
    * Check if those nodes are powered on. If any of those nodes are not powered on after a while then it could be possible that BMC credentials are invalid. You can verify it by checking the logs:

        ```bash

>         kubectl get bmt -n eksa-system

Reviewer 3: should this be bmc? instead of bmt. @pokearu

Reviewer 5: `kubectl get bm` is also an option to check if the credentials or connectivity is at fault.
But we can look at bmt (BMCTask) as the task would have failed and the failure message in the task conditions would specify if it's a connection error or any other issue.

Reviewer 3: ah so it is bmt. Thanks for confirming

Author: It seems no change is needed here. Let me know if I misinterpreted.

        kubectl get bmt <bmt-name> -n eksa-system -o yaml
        ```

>     BMC credentials are incorrect if the message in the bmt log says something like `Failed to connect to BMC: failed to open connection to BMC`. You might have enable “IPMI over LAN” for that machine if it says something like “failed to perform OneTimeBootDeviceAction”

Reviewer 4: @chrisdoherty4 are you suggesting something like below?
```suggestion
    Validate BMC credentials if the message in the bmt log says something like `Failed to connect to BMC: failed to open connection to BMC`. You might have enable “IPMI over LAN” for that machine if it says something like “failed to perform OneTimeBootDeviceAction”
```

Regarding "IPMI over LAN", I agree we suggest user to enable it since the beginning but this is something that can happen if they add a new machine and might forget to enable that? 
If we include IPMI command, shouldn't we have to ask them to install it as a pre-req?

>     BMC credentials are incorrect if the message in the bmt log says something like `Failed to connect to BMC: failed to open connection to BMC`. You might have enable “IPMI over LAN” for that machine if it says something like “failed to perform OneTimeBootDeviceAction”

Reviewer: @abhinavmpandey08 Is that error consistent from every vendor? What does HP say, for example?

>     BMC credentials are incorrect if the message in the bmt log says something like `Failed to connect to BMC: failed to open connection to BMC`. You might have enable “IPMI over LAN” for that machine if it says something like “failed to perform OneTimeBootDeviceAction”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Validate BMC credentials are correct if a connection error is observed on the `bmt resource. Note: IPMI over LAN is required for the `bmt` resource to communicate with BMC.
```

@panktishah26 The above covers what I was referencing.

>     BMC credentials are incorrect if the message in the bmt log says something like `Failed to connect to BMC: failed to open connection to BMC`. You might have enable “IPMI over LAN” for that machine if it says something like “failed to perform OneTimeBootDeviceAction”

Reviewer 2: > @abhinavmpandey08 Is that error consistent from every vendor? What does HP say, for example?

this error is specific to Dell servers. I haven't seen this error on HP or supermicro. I think those have ipmi over lan enabled by default. It's mainly the dell servers that disables by default

>     BMC credentials are incorrect if the message in the bmt log says something like `Failed to connect to BMC: failed to open connection to BMC`. You might have enable “IPMI over LAN” for that machine if it says something like “failed to perform OneTimeBootDeviceAction”

Reviewer 4: @abhinavmpandey08 sure, we can add the error message for both invalid credentials and IPMI over LAN in the separate PR.
For this PR, @chrisnegus can you pl update the message suggested by Chris?

>     BMC credentials are incorrect if the message in the bmt log says something like `Failed to connect to BMC: failed to open connection to BMC`. You might have enable “IPMI over LAN” for that machine if it says something like “failed to perform OneTimeBootDeviceAction”

Author: I added the last suggestions, with a minor change. I didn't want to add a note there, so I changed the wording to say: "Note that IPMI over LAN..."

> 1. If the machine is powered on but you see `linuxkit is not running`, then Tinkerbell failed to serve the node via iPXE. In this case, you would want to:

Reviewer: I feel like its a little misleading to state concretely credentials are incorrect from this error because the error doesn't indicate that and its probably vendor specific (i.e. there's no contract).

We might instead ask them to validate the BMC credentials directly if they observe this error.

> 1. If the machine is powered on but you see `linuxkit is not running`, then Tinkerbell failed to serve the node via iPXE. In this case, you would want to:

Reviewer: It seems like a bit of a stretch to attribute LinuxKit not running to iPXE failing. iPXE ends once hook is streamed and launched by iPXE and anything in Hooks boot may have failed.

Starting by reviewing boots logs makes sense, I wonder if we should mention requests being services by _other_ DHCP servers and the race conditions - this seems like a natural place to mention it.

Author: I changed the order to mention the boots service logs first. I also changed the DHCP issue to read as follows:
* Confirm no other DHCP service responded to the request and check for any errors in the BMC console. Other DHCP servers on the network can result in race conditions and should be avoided by configuring the other server to block all MAC addresses and exclude all IP addresses used by EKS Anywhere.

> 1. If the machine is powered on but you see `linuxkit is not running`, then Tinkerbell failed to serve the node via iPXE. In this case, you would want to:

Reviewer 2: > If the machine is powered on but you see `linuxkit is not running`,

why is `linuxkit is not running` in quotes? That's not a message that the users will see anywhere, is it?
Also, we should describe what linuxkit is and where it should be running

Author: I removed the quotes, based on this not being a literal message. I need more information here to do anything further. Please advise.

    * Confirm no other DHCP service responded to the request and check for any errors in the BMC console. 
    * Check the boots service logs from the machine where you are running the CLI to see if it received and/or responded to the request:

        ```bash 
        docker logs boots
        ```

> 1. If you see `linuxkit is running*, click enter in the BMC console to access the linuxkit terminal. Run the following commands to check if the tink-worker is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you see "LinuxKit is running", click enter in the BMC console to access the LinuxKit terminal. Run the following commands to check if the tink-worker container is running.
```

    ```bash

>     docker logs <container-id>

Reviewer 3: Reversee the order of these commands as you need to run ps first to identify the container id for logs

Reviewer 4: yeah, makes sense. @chrisnegus can you reverse the order of both the commands here?
### docker ps -a
docker logs <container-id>

Author: Done.

>     docker logs <container-id>

Reviewer: I don't think Docker is used in Hook - I think we need to use containerd cmds.

    docker ps -a
    ```

1. If the machine has already started provisioning the OS and it’s in irrecoverable state, get the workflow of the provisioning/provisioned machine using:

    ```bash

>     kubectl get workflow -n eksa-system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl get workflows -n eksa-system
```

Author: Done.

>     kubectl get workflow <workflow-name> -n eksa-system -o yaml

Reviewer: Its probably useful to encourage 'describe' with `kubectl describe workflow/<workflow-name> -n eksa-system`. It yields additional useful information like event records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    kubectl describe workflow <workflow-name> -n eksa-system
```

Reviewer 4: sure, I am good with any. 
@chrisnegus can you change "get" command to "describe" as suggested by Chris?

Author: Done.
